README.md, before:

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD033 MD041 -->
<div align="center">

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/akamhy/waybackpy/master/assets/waybackpy_logo.svg"><br>

<h3>A Python package & CLI tool that interfaces with the Wayback Machine API</h3>

</div>

<p align="center">
<a href="https://github.com/akamhy/waybackpy/actions?query=workflow%3ATests"><img alt="Unit Tests" src="https://github.com/akamhy/waybackpy/workflows/Tests/badge.svg"></a>
<a href="https://codecov.io/gh/akamhy/waybackpy"><img alt="codecov" src="https://codecov.io/gh/akamhy/waybackpy/branch/master/graph/badge.svg"></a>
<a href="https://pypi.org/project/waybackpy/"><img alt="pypi" src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/waybackpy.svg"></a>
<a href="https://pepy.tech/project/waybackpy?versions=2*&versions=1*&versions=3*"><img alt="Downloads" src="https://pepy.tech/badge/waybackpy/month"></a>
<a href="https://app.codacy.com/gh/akamhy/waybackpy?utm_source=github.com&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=akamhy/waybackpy&utm_campaign=Badge_Grade_Settings"><img alt="Codacy Badge" src="https://api.codacy.com/project/badge/Grade/6d777d8509f642ac89a20715bb3a6193"></a>
<a href="https://github.com/akamhy/waybackpy/commits/master"><img alt="GitHub lastest commit" src="https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/akamhy/waybackpy?color=blue&style=flat-square"></a>
<a href="#"><img alt="PyPI - Python Version" src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/waybackpy?style=flat-square"></a>
<a href="https://github.com/psf/black"><img alt="Code style: black" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg"></a>
</p>

---

# <img src="https://github.githubassets.com/images/icons/emoji/unicode/2b50.png" width="30"></img> Introduction

Waybackpy is a [Python package](https://www.udacity.com/blog/2021/01/what-is-a-python-package.html) and a [CLI](https://www.w3schools.com/whatis/whatis_cli.asp) tool that interfaces with the [Wayback Machine](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wayback_Machine) API.

 Wayback Machine has 3 client side [API](https://www.redhat.com/en/topics/api/what-are-application-programming-interfaces)s.

- [Save API](https://github.com/akamhy/waybackpy/wiki/Wayback-Machine-APIs#save-api)
- [Availability API](https://github.com/akamhy/waybackpy/wiki/Wayback-Machine-APIs#availability-api)
- [CDX API](https://github.com/akamhy/waybackpy/wiki/Wayback-Machine-APIs#cdx-api)

These three APIs can be accessed via the waybackpy either by importing it in a script or from the CLI.

## <img src="https://github.githubassets.com/images/icons/emoji/unicode/1f3d7.png" width="20"></img> Installation

**Using [pip](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pip_(package_manager)), from [PyPI](https://pypi.org/) (recommended)**:

```bash
pip install waybackpy
```

**Using [conda](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Conda_(package_manager)), from [conda-forge](https://anaconda.org/conda-forge/waybackpy) (recommended)**:

See also [waybackpy feedstock](https://github.com/conda-forge/waybackpy-feedstock), maintainers are [@rafaelrdealmeida](https://github.com/rafaelrdealmeida/),
 [@labriunesp](https://github.com/labriunesp/)
 and [@akamhy](https://github.com/akamhy/).

```bash
conda install -c conda-forge waybackpy
```

**Install directly from [this git repository](https://github.com/akamhy/waybackpy) (NOT recommended)**:

```bash
pip install git+https://github.com/akamhy/waybackpy.git
```

## <img src="https://github.githubassets.com/images/icons/emoji/unicode/1f433.png" width="20"></img> Docker Image

Docker Hub : <https://hub.docker.com/r/secsi/waybackpy>

[Docker image](https://searchitoperations.techtarget.com/definition/Docker-image) is automatically updated on every release by [Regulary and Automatically Updated Docker Images](https://github.com/cybersecsi/RAUDI) (RAUDI).

RAUDI is a tool by SecSI (<https://secsi.io>), an Italian cybersecurity startup.

## <img src="https://github.githubassets.com/images/icons/emoji/unicode/1f680.png" width="20"></img> Usage

### As a Python package

#### Save API aka SavePageNow

```python
>>> from waybackpy import WaybackMachineSaveAPI
>>> url = "https://github.com"
>>> user_agent = "Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 5.1; rv:40.0) Gecko/20100101 Firefox/40.0"
>>>
>>> save_api = WaybackMachineSaveAPI(url, user_agent)
>>> save_api.save()
https://web.archive.org/web/20220118125249/https://github.com/
>>> save_api.cached_save
False
>>> save_api.timestamp()
datetime.datetime(2022, 1, 18, 12, 52, 49)
```

#### CDX API aka CDXServerAPI

```python
>>> from waybackpy import WaybackMachineCDXServerAPI
>>> url = "https://google.com"
>>> user_agent = "my new app's user agent"
>>> cdx_api = WaybackMachineCDXServerAPI(url, user_agent)
```
##### oldest
```python
>>> cdx_api.oldest()
com,google)/ 19981111184551 http://google.com:80/ text/html 200 HOQ2TGPYAEQJPNUA6M4SMZ3NGQRBXDZ3 381
>>> oldest = cdx_api.oldest()
>>> oldest
com,google)/ 19981111184551 http://google.com:80/ text/html 200 HOQ2TGPYAEQJPNUA6M4SMZ3NGQRBXDZ3 381
>>> oldest.archive_url
'https://web.archive.org/web/19981111184551/http://google.com:80/'
>>> oldest.original
'http://google.com:80/'
>>> oldest.urlkey
'com,google)/'
>>> oldest.timestamp
'19981111184551'
>>> oldest.datetime_timestamp
datetime.datetime(1998, 11, 11, 18, 45, 51)
>>> oldest.statuscode
'200'
>>> oldest.mimetype
'text/html'
```
##### newest
```python
>>> newest = cdx_api.newest()
>>> newest
com,google)/ 20220217234427 http://@google.com/ text/html 301 Y6PVK4XWOI3BXQEXM5WLLWU5JKUVNSFZ 563
>>> newest.archive_url
'https://web.archive.org/web/20220217234427/http://@google.com/'
>>> newest.timestamp
'20220217234427'
```
##### near
```python
>>> near = cdx_api.near(year=2010, month=10, day=10, hour=10, minute=10)
>>> near.archive_url
'https://web.archive.org/web/20101010101435/http://google.com/'
>>> near
com,google)/ 20101010101435 http://google.com/ text/html 301 Y6PVK4XWOI3BXQEXM5WLLWU5JKUVNSFZ 391
>>> near.timestamp
'20101010101435'
>>> near.timestamp
'20101010101435'
>>> near = cdx_api.near(wayback_machine_timestamp=2008080808)
>>> near.archive_url
'https://web.archive.org/web/20080808051143/http://google.com/'
>>> near = cdx_api.near(unix_timestamp=1286705410)
>>> near
com,google)/ 20101010101435 http://google.com/ text/html 301 Y6PVK4XWOI3BXQEXM5WLLWU5JKUVNSFZ 391
>>> near.archive_url
'https://web.archive.org/web/20101010101435/http://google.com/'
>>> 
```
##### snapshots
```python
>>> from waybackpy import WaybackMachineCDXServerAPI
>>> url = "https://pypi.org"
>>> user_agent = "Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 5.1; rv:40.0) Gecko/20100101 Firefox/40.0"
>>> cdx = WaybackMachineCDXServerAPI(url, user_agent, start_timestamp=2016, end_timestamp=2017)
>>> for item in cdx.snapshots():
...     print(item.archive_url)
...
https://web.archive.org/web/20160110011047/http://pypi.org/
https://web.archive.org/web/20160305104847/http://pypi.org/
.
. # URLS REDACTED FOR READABILITY
.
https://web.archive.org/web/20171127171549/https://pypi.org/
https://web.archive.org/web/20171206002737/http://pypi.org:80/
```

#### Availability API

It is recommended to not use the availability API due to performance issues. All the methods of availability API interface class, `WaybackMachineAvailabilityAPI`, are also implemented in the CDX server API interface class, `WaybackMachineCDXServerAPI`.

```python
>>> from waybackpy import WaybackMachineAvailabilityAPI
>>>
>>> url = "https://google.com"
>>> user_agent = "Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 5.1; rv:40.0) Gecko/20100101 Firefox/40.0"
>>>
>>> availability_api = WaybackMachineAvailabilityAPI(url, user_agent)
```
##### oldest
```python
>>> availability_api.oldest()
https://web.archive.org/web/19981111184551/http://google.com:80/
```
##### newest
```python
>>> availability_api.newest()
https://web.archive.org/web/20220118150444/https://www.google.com/
```
##### near
```python
>>> availability_api.near(year=2010, month=10, day=10, hour=10)
https://web.archive.org/web/20101010101708/http://www.google.com/
```

> Documentation is at <https://github.com/akamhy/waybackpy/wiki/Python-package-docs>.

### As a CLI tool

Demo video on [asciinema.org](https://asciinema.org/a/469890), you can copy the text from video:

[![asciicast](https://asciinema.org/a/469890.svg)](https://asciinema.org/a/469890)

> CLI documentation is at <https://github.com/akamhy/waybackpy/wiki/CLI-docs>.

## <img src="https://github.githubassets.com/images/icons/emoji/unicode/1f6e1.png" width="20"></img> License

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-green.svg)](https://github.com/akamhy/waybackpy/blob/master/LICENSE)

Copyright (c) 2020-2022 Akash Mahanty Et al.

Released under the MIT License. See [license](https://github.com/akamhy/waybackpy/blob/master/LICENSE) for details.

Commit message:

v3.0.6 (#170)
* remove the license section from readme

This does not mean that I'm waving the copyrights rather just formatting the README

* remove useless external links form the README lead

and also added a line about the recentness of the newest method between the availability and CDX server API.

* incr version to 3.0.6 and change date to todays da

-te that is 15th of March, 2022.

* update secsi and DI section

* v3.0.5 --> v3.0.6

README.md, after:

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD033 MD041 -->
<div align="center">

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/akamhy/waybackpy/master/assets/waybackpy_logo.svg"><br>

<h3>A Python package & CLI tool that interfaces with the Wayback Machine API</h3>

</div>

<p align="center">
<a href="https://github.com/akamhy/waybackpy/actions?query=workflow%3ATests"><img alt="Unit Tests" src="https://github.com/akamhy/waybackpy/workflows/Tests/badge.svg"></a>
<a href="https://codecov.io/gh/akamhy/waybackpy"><img alt="codecov" src="https://codecov.io/gh/akamhy/waybackpy/branch/master/graph/badge.svg"></a>
<a href="https://pypi.org/project/waybackpy/"><img alt="pypi" src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/waybackpy.svg"></a>
<a href="https://pepy.tech/project/waybackpy?versions=2*&versions=1*&versions=3*"><img alt="Downloads" src="https://pepy.tech/badge/waybackpy/month"></a>
<a href="https://app.codacy.com/gh/akamhy/waybackpy?utm_source=github.com&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=akamhy/waybackpy&utm_campaign=Badge_Grade_Settings"><img alt="Codacy Badge" src="https://api.codacy.com/project/badge/Grade/6d777d8509f642ac89a20715bb3a6193"></a>
<a href="https://github.com/akamhy/waybackpy/commits/master"><img alt="GitHub lastest commit" src="https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/akamhy/waybackpy?color=blue&style=flat-square"></a>
<a href="#"><img alt="PyPI - Python Version" src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/waybackpy?style=flat-square"></a>
<a href="https://github.com/psf/black"><img alt="Code style: black" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg"></a>
</p>

---

# <img src="https://github.githubassets.com/images/icons/emoji/unicode/2b50.png" width="30"></img> Introduction

Waybackpy is a Python package and a CLI tool that interfaces with the Wayback Machine APIs.

Wayback Machine has 3 client side APIs.

- SavePageNow or Save API
- CDX Server API
- Availability API

These three APIs can be accessed via the waybackpy either by importing it from a python file/module or from the command-line interface.

## <img src="https://github.githubassets.com/images/icons/emoji/unicode/1f3d7.png" width="20"></img> Installation

**Using [pip](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pip_(package_manager)), from [PyPI](https://pypi.org/) (recommended)**:

```bash
pip install waybackpy
```

**Using [conda](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Conda_(package_manager)), from [conda-forge](https://anaconda.org/conda-forge/waybackpy) (recommended)**:

See also [waybackpy feedstock](https://github.com/conda-forge/waybackpy-feedstock), maintainers are [@rafaelrdealmeida](https://github.com/rafaelrdealmeida/),
 [@labriunesp](https://github.com/labriunesp/)
 and [@akamhy](https://github.com/akamhy/).

```bash
conda install -c conda-forge waybackpy
```

**Install directly from [this git repository](https://github.com/akamhy/waybackpy) (NOT recommended)**:

```bash
pip install git+https://github.com/akamhy/waybackpy.git
```

## <img src="https://github.githubassets.com/images/icons/emoji/unicode/1f433.png" width="20"></img> Docker Image

Docker Hub: [hub.docker.com/r/secsi/waybackpy](https://hub.docker.com/r/secsi/waybackpy)

Docker image is automatically updated on every release by [Regulary and Automatically Updated Docker Images](https://github.com/cybersecsi/RAUDI) (RAUDI).

RAUDI is a tool by [SecSI](https://secsi.io), an Italian cybersecurity startup.

## <img src="https://github.githubassets.com/images/icons/emoji/unicode/1f680.png" width="20"></img> Usage

### As a Python package

#### Save API aka SavePageNow

```python
>>> from waybackpy import WaybackMachineSaveAPI
>>> url = "https://github.com"
>>> user_agent = "Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 5.1; rv:40.0) Gecko/20100101 Firefox/40.0"
>>>
>>> save_api = WaybackMachineSaveAPI(url, user_agent)
>>> save_api.save()
https://web.archive.org/web/20220118125249/https://github.com/
>>> save_api.cached_save
False
>>> save_api.timestamp()
datetime.datetime(2022, 1, 18, 12, 52, 49)
```

#### CDX API aka CDXServerAPI

```python
>>> from waybackpy import WaybackMachineCDXServerAPI
>>> url = "https://google.com"
>>> user_agent = "my new app's user agent"
>>> cdx_api = WaybackMachineCDXServerAPI(url, user_agent)
```
##### oldest
```python
>>> cdx_api.oldest()
com,google)/ 19981111184551 http://google.com:80/ text/html 200 HOQ2TGPYAEQJPNUA6M4SMZ3NGQRBXDZ3 381
>>> oldest = cdx_api.oldest()
>>> oldest
com,google)/ 19981111184551 http://google.com:80/ text/html 200 HOQ2TGPYAEQJPNUA6M4SMZ3NGQRBXDZ3 381
>>> oldest.archive_url
'https://web.archive.org/web/19981111184551/http://google.com:80/'
>>> oldest.original
'http://google.com:80/'
>>> oldest.urlkey
'com,google)/'
>>> oldest.timestamp
'19981111184551'
>>> oldest.datetime_timestamp
datetime.datetime(1998, 11, 11, 18, 45, 51)
>>> oldest.statuscode
'200'
>>> oldest.mimetype
'text/html'
```
##### newest
```python
>>> newest = cdx_api.newest()
>>> newest
com,google)/ 20220217234427 http://@google.com/ text/html 301 Y6PVK4XWOI3BXQEXM5WLLWU5JKUVNSFZ 563
>>> newest.archive_url
'https://web.archive.org/web/20220217234427/http://@google.com/'
>>> newest.timestamp
'20220217234427'
```
##### near
```python
>>> near = cdx_api.near(year=2010, month=10, day=10, hour=10, minute=10)
>>> near.archive_url
'https://web.archive.org/web/20101010101435/http://google.com/'
>>> near
com,google)/ 20101010101435 http://google.com/ text/html 301 Y6PVK4XWOI3BXQEXM5WLLWU5JKUVNSFZ 391
>>> near.timestamp
'20101010101435'
>>> near.timestamp
'20101010101435'
>>> near = cdx_api.near(wayback_machine_timestamp=2008080808)
>>> near.archive_url
'https://web.archive.org/web/20080808051143/http://google.com/'
>>> near = cdx_api.near(unix_timestamp=1286705410)
>>> near
com,google)/ 20101010101435 http://google.com/ text/html 301 Y6PVK4XWOI3BXQEXM5WLLWU5JKUVNSFZ 391
>>> near.archive_url
'https://web.archive.org/web/20101010101435/http://google.com/'
>>> 
```
##### snapshots
```python
>>> from waybackpy import WaybackMachineCDXServerAPI
>>> url = "https://pypi.org"
>>> user_agent = "Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 5.1; rv:40.0) Gecko/20100101 Firefox/40.0"
>>> cdx = WaybackMachineCDXServerAPI(url, user_agent, start_timestamp=2016, end_timestamp=2017)
>>> for item in cdx.snapshots():
...     print(item.archive_url)
...
https://web.archive.org/web/20160110011047/http://pypi.org/
https://web.archive.org/web/20160305104847/http://pypi.org/
.
. # URLS REDACTED FOR READABILITY
.
https://web.archive.org/web/20171127171549/https://pypi.org/
https://web.archive.org/web/20171206002737/http://pypi.org:80/
```

#### Availability API

It is recommended to not use the availability API due to performance issues. All the methods of availability API interface class, `WaybackMachineAvailabilityAPI`, are also implemented in the CDX server API interface class, `WaybackMachineCDXServerAPI`. Also note 
that the `newest()` method of `WaybackMachineAvailabilityAPI` can be more recent than `WaybackMachineCDXServerAPI`'s same method.

```python
>>> from waybackpy import WaybackMachineAvailabilityAPI
>>>
>>> url = "https://google.com"
>>> user_agent = "Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 5.1; rv:40.0) Gecko/20100101 Firefox/40.0"
>>>
>>> availability_api = WaybackMachineAvailabilityAPI(url, user_agent)
```
##### oldest
```python
>>> availability_api.oldest()
https://web.archive.org/web/19981111184551/http://google.com:80/
```
##### newest
```python
>>> availability_api.newest()
https://web.archive.org/web/20220118150444/https://www.google.com/
```
##### near
```python
>>> availability_api.near(year=2010, month=10, day=10, hour=10)
https://web.archive.org/web/20101010101708/http://www.google.com/
```

> Documentation is at <https://github.com/akamhy/waybackpy/wiki/Python-package-docs>.

### As a CLI tool

Demo video on [asciinema.org](https://asciinema.org/a/469890), you can copy the text from video:

[![asciicast](https://asciinema.org/a/469890.svg)](https://asciinema.org/a/469890)

> CLI documentation is at <https://github.com/akamhy/waybackpy/wiki/CLI-docs>.
